1.)

1. What is the Topographic Wetness Index?

Topographic Wetness Index (TWI) is a conceptually based model that identifies wet areas that are at high risk of
overland flash flooding.

Further description: 
Topographic wetness index (TWI) is an alternative to the traditional
approach of delineating flood-prone areas using contours alone. The TWI provides a
more cost-efficient approach to flood determination than conventional hydrodynamic
models. The Topographic Wetness Index (TWI) is an immediate
solution, allowing rapid ascertainment of the distribution of overland flash-flood-prone areas
in a given study site. The TWI is determined using a spatially distributed conceptual model
which can be used in a Geographical Information System (GIS) environment.


2. How are the TWI values related to the flood probability?

TWI model is in a continuous raster data model and each cell has its value of 
wetness (the model represents wetness distribution). The cell-wetness values are 
related to the flood probability through defined threshold, which separates cell values into flood- and non-flood-prone classes.
In order to do so, spatial statistical method (cluster and outlier analysis) was used. The classification of the each
single cell is based on the surrounding cells with a certain level of statistical confidence.

Further information: 
The final map will be a vector data model comprising of polygon geometry which shows the boundary of 
flashflood-prone areas. TWD approach represents the probable flash-flooding-prone areas which
need comprehensive flood studies and more attention in the land development
approval process.


2.) 

QGIS Processing Toolbox: 
SAGA -> Terrain Analysis-Hydrology -> Topografic wetness index (twi)

GRASS GIS:
- r.topidx 
- r.watershed 
- r.terraflow

Python based project: 
africker/Topographic-Wetness-Index (https://github.com/africker/Topographic-Wetness-Index)

R based project:
rsaga.wetness.index: SAGA Modules SAGA Wetness Index (https://rdrr.io/cran/RSAGA/man/rsaga.wetness.index.html)
